Introduction

Honesty is truly the best policy as it is the foundation of a well working relationship. Not only that, it nourishes the life of people in many ways. Trust is the base of any relationship which is obtained from the honesty. Generally people feel hard to be honest as it is quite tough to maintain honesty.

What is Honesty

Honesty is a good quality which involves being truthful and trustworthy in all the aspects of life forever. It never involves cheating and being unethical to others in life. It is a moral behavior based on truthfulness and free from all the evil motives.

Importance of Honesty

Honesty is the good quality and great virtue of much importance. It is always adored in the family, society and all over the world. A person having the property of honesty truly becomes an honest man. Whether a person is honest or dishonest completely depends on his/her family ethics and surrounding environment. If parents are honest, surely they will pass it to their children genetically, otherwise it can be developed practically which needs patience and dedication.

An honest person is always known for his/her honesty just like a sun is known for its eternal light and unlimited energy. It is a quality which helps a person to succeed in life and get much respect. It gives identification to the moral character of a person. Dishonest people may easily get trust and respect from other people; however, lose that forever whenever get caught.

Being dishonest is found sin in all the religions however people practice it for their short time benefits and selfishness. Dishonest people always become hated and disbelieved in the family and society. They never get support and sympathy from good people even God. They never become morally strong and their life becomes miserable. An honest person moves freely in the society and spread his/her fragrance in all directions. Being honest is never mean to bear the bad habits of others or bear the ill-treated activities. Everyone has rights to reveal and take action against what is going wrong with him.

Conclusion

Honesty is a virtue which shows moral ethics of a person. If all the people seriously practice to get honest, then the society will become an ideal society and free of all the corruptions and evils. There will be huge changes in the day-to-day life of everyone. It can happen very easily if all the parents and teachers understand their responsibilities towards the nation and teach their children and students about moral ethics.

 

HONESTY ESSAY 6 (400 WORDS)
Introduction

Honesty is a word which we all much familiar of it however not so used to of. There is no any concrete method through which honesty can be tested however it can be felt to a great extent. Honesty is a virtue which reflects people’s mind towards goodness. It brings stability and lots of happiness in the life as it easily wins the confidence of people in the society.

What is Honesty

Honesty means being honest and truthful to anyone in all aspects. It is the act of doing good by considering what is universal good in any situation without anyone’s force. Honesty is the way we do for others in good and selfless manners. Some people only show to be honest however in real life they never become honest and it is wrong way to cheat innocent people. Honesty is truly a virtue which reveals good qualities of a person.

Role of Honesty in Life

Honesty plays various important roles all through the life which can be seen very clearly with open eyes. Being said an honest person by the people in society is the best complement for that person. It is the real property a person earns in life which never finishes. Lack of honesty in the society is the biggest gap now-a-days among people. It is due to the lack proper interpersonal relationship between parents-children and students-teachers. Honesty is not a thing which can be bought or sold. It can be developed slowly thus home and school are the best place for a child to develop good habits.

Home and school are the place where a child learns moral ethics. Thus, there should be some essential tactics in the education system to keep a child close to the morality. Children must be instructed properly right from their childhood to practice honesty at home and school with the help of parents and teachers. Youths of any country are the future of that country so they should given better opportunities to develop moral character, so that they can lead their country in better way.

Honesty is the true solution of all human problems. Now-a-days, everywhere is corruption and various problems in the society just because of the reducing number of honest people. In such a fast and competitive environment, people have forgotten about the moral ethics. It is necessary to rethink that how to bring honesty back in the society to let everything go in natural manner.

Conclusion

People should realize the value of honesty in order to manage the social and economical balance. Honesty is very necessary to be followed by people as it has been an essential requirement in the modern time. It is a good habit which makes a person capable enough to solve and handle any difficult situation.